Tonight I have about 3 hours of studying to take advantage of. I am going to start by coming up with a vintage color scheme to work with and saving it within the mui theme. I learned how to work with the default themes spacing yesterday and don't see any need to change that up si I can check it off of the list. It feels cool to be mixing mui with styled components. It's such a powerful way to write css for a React application.

Once I have the color palette in place I can go ahead and continue with styling up the home page. I will need to work on the main call to action and include the categories navigation within the main nav bar. Once that is ready to go I will be able to move tot he shopping page and style up the individual product cards which will be stored in a grid. Next to the grid I will have a container for filtering the output by price and manufacturer. I can create that component as well, or alternatively I can move on with the actual logic for the shopping cart as I still haeven't gotten around to that yet and would like to get working on it. I am watching a video to get some ideas on how I can manage state for this app. The video uses context and I am interested to see how they approach implementing it. I am considering right now passing a context to just the shopping page but I still don't want to reload all of it with each update so that's not ideal. Anyways i'll take cue from that video to come up with an approach that works for my app.

Well damn, that went well! My home page is completely styled up (with the theme nearly dialed in), and the categories navigation has been integrated into the main nav bar. It is looking like a solid application now... until you visit the actual shop haha. Next up is styling the product cards. That will be tomorrows jobs. The product filtering container can wait, i'd like to get the shopping cart logic moving next. I will then move on to styling the product page, and once thats ready I can come back to product filtering. At that point i'll be good to add in the wishlist to finish things up. Login functionality can be added in once I learn how to do that in future lessons.