I'm going to start today off by doing a little bit of planning. Not sure what the best oder of operations is right now for proceeding so lets go through all the requirements real quick.

The search bar is done now and materialUI is configured. The only thing that I can think of that needs to be figured out next that does not involve any sort of extensive styling is the shopping cart. 

The shopping cart will be accessible via a button that contains a cart icon and is held within the main nav bar. When clicked, a function will run the shows or hides the shopping cart component. For now I won't worry about how the showing/hiding happens from a visual standpoint, I just want it to appear and disappear. Within the shopping cart there will be a header, a list that contains cart items, a subtotal, and a checkout button. Each cart item will have an image of the item, a text field for the model and manufacturer, a price field, and a quantity field that has a add and subtract button to control the quantity of the items in the cart. The subtotal should be adjusted dynamically as the quantity of items in the cart changes. The cart icon will also have a badge that displays the number of items in the cart that also changes dynamically. A close button will also exist to hide the cart component, or alternatively the icon styling can change to indicate that the cart is opened or closed and it can be used for both needs.

Once this is done I will need functionality to add each item to the cart of course, so that will need to be included within each product card and on each product page. I'm hesitant to use context for this as I don't want every component to refresh when the state of the cart changes. I think prop drilling might be the way to go, or perhaps I can take a little detour and research react query or redux for state management.

Well, finding a background image of an old cassette tape has sparked some new ideas for me in regards to this application. I think i'm going to switch the concept from guitar pedals to vintage audio effects, and I will go for a vintage vibe that uses rca and sony record labels design elements as inspiration. There is no shortage of inspiration for vintage design.

The header will have a logo on the right, then a search bar, then a favourites icon, then a login link, and finally the cart icon. Use Reverb.com as a reference.

Tons of progress on the styling of the home page has been made. I need to focus on the theming, in particular font size, spacing, and colors. This will make sure I have consistency as the app grows. I also need to fix a problem with the searchbar results expanding the size of the navbar rather than overflwoing out of it.

Search bar problem has been solved. Just used relative positioning on the data results container and ensured the z-index is as high as it could be so the results appear on top.