Joe says the credit card that adobe has on file has been fixed. Can't fix the billing issue though for some reason as Adobe seems to have the option locked up. Hoping that tomorrow that is all sorted out.

I'm in some hot water at work right now which is... interesting I suppose. I did that interveiw yesterday as mentioned in the previous journal entry. Well it turns out the lady that was present while interviewing me approached Joe and Tracy very recently and warned them that the new owner was running the business into the ground. He had told me that the guy fucked off to India for a month and left zero dollars in their bank account which presumably caused alot of issues with their clients. He is hiring people to run the business for him because he doesn't know how to do it himself, and he's even apparently watching his staff by putting cameras on their computer stations. Pretty fucked up. Anyways, at no point did he mention anything about me interviewing, he just told us to prepare for some more business and be real nice to any representatives from Pioneer that come around, but the coincidence is too weird to accept at face value. My thoughts are that he is aware that I went and met up with them and wanted to make sure that I wasn't accepting any offers. There is potential that I will be fired and replaced with that lady that showed up (or somebody cheaper). I don't know, i'm a pretty paranoid person I suppose but the possibility is there. 

The hand that i'm going to play if this ends up being an issue is to be 100% forward about interviewing when confronted, and make sure they know that my main goal in my life right now is to advance my career so that I can eventually support myself and a family. Allowing myself to stagnate is the worst decision I can make and i'm struggling to see how I can advance any more in my position. This place that I interviewed at was offering $26/hr to start so I saw it as a good opportunity until I got more details and told them I wasn't interested. I will have to hope that they understand where i'm coming from and are not going to retaliate, and hopefully it will actually increase my value to them by seeing that I do have options and i'm willing to make moves to improve my circumstances. We'll see - worst case scenario is I file for unemployment and find another temporary position to save up until I go to school in september. No big deal, I might even be able to find something that pays better if I luck out. Hope that doesn't happen though because i'd like to avoid the stress of it if possible and I do enjoy working at Duplicators for the most part!