Today i'm going to finish up the brushes section. There really isn't much left of this course at all! Only a few small sections left to knock off. I will be moving to inDesign next which is an entirely new software to me. I have used illustrator and photoshop previously so I knew what to expect for the most part. Should be a fun enough process to get used to a brand new program. I'm glad that i'm getting near the end of accomplishing my main goal though. Once I have this trifecta of design sorted out i'm going to put it into use and build a website or two. I want the sites to be pretty involved and have a really nice UI. They will be some serious full-stack projects. I need to decide between starting with the band manager application or the cat hospital website. Either will be fine, but i'm leaning towards keeping it music related as it will be less stressful to pitch a new idea to my friends than give a product to a business owner. It's entirely possible as well that neither of the apps will end up anywhere but on my portfolio but hey greate experience nonetheless, and I really need to shake off the rust with programming as this break to study design is feeling pretty long. Also I should mention that I am heavily considering going back to school this September to finish up the business degree. A diploma is cool and all but it still feels like I haven't finished that adventure, and the opportunity that I have to sacrifice just one more year to finish this thing once and for all is really hard to pass up. I mean, what else will I put all my savings towards anyways. This would be a worthy investment and the timing is good. Just need to figure out how I will approach working while i'm in school full-time. I don't think i'll be able to spend very many hours on the job, and I doubt Duplicators would want to keep me around for something so small. Make I can try figuring out how to make some money freelancing or something... idk, I have yet to work all this out but it's on my mind.

