Okay so the Adobe plan is still down. I asked for access to another credit card but got denied. Oh well, Adobe support claims that it should be back up within 24-48 hours. I feel soooo guilty for not making progress in my career haha butgod damn is itnice to just kick back and play some chess or whatever. 

Anyways, development at work is that Chris may actually be getting let go. He didn't show up again today or even call us until about 10am to let us know what was going on. Joe mentioned that he might have to fire him for it. Understandable as this is not the first time, but it does sort of suck that Chris is in that situation. I actually think it might end up being good for him though because he doesn't seem to be able to motivate himself to get out of Duplicators to get something better. It's too bad that it went for so long but hopefully he lands on his feet and in a better spot if they decide to cut ties with him on Monday. I'm personally not sure how I should handle this situation if he does have to go. 

They can make 4 decisions as far as I can tell. Not hire anybody temporarily and have Zach and I absorb the workload until it gets busy, not hire at all and expect us to handle it, have Joe step in permanently on production, or hire somebody else to take Chris' spot. The most likely scenario is hiring somebody else as Joe is busy, when business picks up our lead times will be quite long without a third person, and we could use the down time to train somebody up on the basics. All scenarios lead to alot more work from me which sucks because I already am doing a production job and a managers job in one. Hard to keep up as it is while also trying to make improvements in the department. We'll see what happens.

If they don't intend on hiring though (even temporarily) I will bring up that I need to be compensated appropriately. We can start with 15 days of vacation since they were already giving that to Chris. I doubt this conversation will be handled well though because I have had frequent raises and the last one she made it clear that I wouldn't be going up again anytime soon. But I only received $1 extra to move into management... which is the same raise as the person that i'm managing received. Lame.