The plan tonight is to finish up a sweet vintage poster that I started working on yesterday. I'm following a tutorial from Doron Studio to design it in the style of Nike's old advertisements from the 70's. There are a few stand out characteristics that make this style recognizable. First of all, it is based off of a single image that has some sort of dynamic element to it. Hard shadows, interesting imagery, motion - that kind of thing. Often time the photo will have be framed subtely rather than cover the entire canvas. The you will usually have an inspirational, witty, or just otherwise intersting but short headline copy. The font has to be in Futura extra bold with the tracking really tight for it to look authentic. There is then typically some body copy in an old-style serif such as Adobe Garamond. The image treatment itself is very txtured with a more muted color palette, however I haven't gotten far enough into the design to really understand the texture and colors in detail. 

Once I am happy with the poster I may move on to the photoshop course to learn about transforming and distorting images. I am feeling pretty comfortable in the software now which is great. My main goal is to get a solid foundation of knowledge so that I can have a ground to stand on when developing my skillset further. I'm not trying to be some expert here that knows every tool in the box right away. I'll allow time to work it's magic there. Pretty gnarly that i'm not too far from the end of the course too.. it's creeping up. That would be 2/3 programs learned! Very important step for my future I believe.

I finished up the vintage poster! I think I learned quite alot from this one mini project. I used 3 separate layers of texture (2 dark xerox scans and a vintage paper) to create an authentic kind of noise. There was alot of small tweaks in colors and levels that resulted in a warm, slightly washed out look to it. I liked working with a simple but very tight composition. All of the elements are quite close to eachother which is not something that I lean towards usually but worked nice in this case. Overall it was just a fun process and I was able to use some of the skills I developed in photography inside of the camera raw plugin which was cool.