Tonight i'm going to be studying responsive images and media queries. Once these lessons are done i'll be all clear to start making my portfolio website. I think i'm going to be bounching back and forth between the portfolio site and the back-end lessons. I won't be able to make much use of the site anyways until I have some good full-stack projects on there worthy of applying for jobs with. 

Covered so far has been a handful of responsive image properties such as background-position, background-size, and object-fit. Some keywords for these are cover, fill, and contain depending on the property in question. They basically just help describe how you want a photograph to take up the space within it's container. The keywords are especially helpful when the images dimensions do not match the aspect ratio of the container which is a super common occurence.

Next I looked into how to use html to serve responsive images. There ae two main problems to solve here: performance and design. To improve performance you want to serve smaller image resolutions as the screen size decreases. You don't need massive files on small screens and the bandwidth that it requires to load them can have a huge impact on performance. Instead, you can have multiple resolutions available for the browser to choose from using the srcset and sizes properties. srcset provides paths to each of the possible images while sizes provides media queries basically that are evaluated for the first match and used to serve up the correct image based on the display size. This is referred to as the resolution switching problem.

The design oriented problem is referred to as the art direction problem, and it concerns serving different images depending on the screen size as well except this time the purpose is to make the images look better in the context they are being used in. For example, maybe a certain image looks good on desktop but once you get to mobile the actual subject matter is way to zoomed out. To solve the problem you can switch between a cropped in version on mobile and the normal version on desktop.