Yesterday I had pretty much perfected the navbar and drawer for the portfolio website, as well as made dark mode a lot more pleasant on the eyes. Today I am going to focus on building up the desktop version of the home section of the site. It will be broken down into a series of Stacks that shouldn't be overly challenging the layout correctly. Then I will need to decide on how to approach adding the photo in. I can export it with the layers underneath as a png but then it would be less customizable. Since I am relying on transparency somewhat I am thinking that I may benefit from breaking it up into layers and then aligning them with css instead. Haven't yet decided what the best route to take is. I could also export a dark version and light version that blends into the background color of the themes, but that would mean if I ever adjust the theme colors I will also have to adjust the photo which is kind of a pain.

Holyyy! I ran into a very sticky situation tonight that took about an hour and a half to work out of. I'm getting damn good at finding answers to obscure questions on the internet though to solve software trickery. The problem I experienced was that the background color of my navbar in dark mode was lighter than it should be. I could tell because the remainder of my app was a darker black. At first I thought that the navbar was the correct color and that the rest of the app was was being overridden somehow. To test that I console logged the value being applied to the container holding the darker black color and noticed that it matched the theme. This meant that the AppBar component was being overridden then, however it console logged at the correct value as well. I figured there was an issue with my theme then so I went through and tried a bunch of potential solutions revolving around overriding colors and what not for the appbar itself. This didn't make any difference though, the color was still logging correctly but not matching the darker black as expected. Finally after digging through a bunch of forums I found that somebody noticed that mui applies a background-image gradient to their appbar when in dark mode for some reason, which happened to have an alpha value of 0.09. This means that the opacity of the overlay was affecting the appearance of the appbar, making it seem lighter than it actually was. I had to override it by applying an inline style property that set the background image to none. Problem solved. I have no idea why mui would think its a good idea to slip in that styling like that though, I wonder what the intent there was. Anyways I spent the night solving that so I haven't made any measurable progress on the header section. That's okay though because it was good practice doing things that real developers would be doing every day.