Time to learn about media queries! I'm already using these of course but to freshen up the techniques and try to fill in any knowledge gaps that I may have is always a good thing. Once i'm done with this lesson I will begin gathering design inspiration for my personal portfolio site. I want this site to be beautiful, no shortcuts from a visual standpoint. It will be a project that i'm sure will be returned to many times over for refactors, design changes, etc so building a solid foundation is going to be critical. I will be using React and Typescript again for this and Vite will be my build tool. I may explore Vitest some more, not sure yet. It will be a single page application so React Router is going to come in handy. I think i'm going to opt in to materialUI and styled components again as that styling approach is pretty kickass. I know the sx prop isn't quite as good as Tailwind but it offers enough features to keep me happy. This site will need to be fully responsive which is going to be great practice. I should consider doing some resolution switching for performance optimization. Depends though on what my design looks like, may not end up being a necessary thing to add in. We'll see where this goes.

Also, I need to create that ReadMe still for the ecommerce site! I can put some time into it as well at any point now. No big rush but it does have to get done before applying for jobs.

Alright well here we go with another project! I'm starting the portfolio now - i've been doing some research today to try  to find design inspiration to work off of. I found a pretty nice homepage layout that i'm going to be using as a reference while designing. I really like the color scheme and typorgraphy choices, as well as the little creative flairs that it has going on. Of course the intent is to use it as a starting point and build my own design using it rather than just copying what's going on. So color choices, typography, and layout in general are going to be taken from this reference and then i'll iterate from there. I am going to be paying attention to animations for this project as well which is exciting. I need to gain some familiarity in that realm! I'm thinking framer motion will be a nice choice to build some satisfying animations off of, and I can always do some of my own from scratch if I don't find anything that has the effect i'm looking for.