Okay time to get started. So I was thinking today that a common pain point that has been coming up alot in my projects is the development of my site taking longer due to lack of design planning. Iterating through different design ideas is difficult without using graphic software, so I bet that I will get a better result if I first do the design and then implement it in code. I know that i'm not aiming to be a designer however this skillset may end up coming in handy and a personal portfolio is the ideal time to learn it. I'm going to spend some time learning how to properly use Figma. Since I work in design software all day I feel like i'll catch on pretty quick to this. Being able to list another technology on the resume can't hurt either right? So today i'm going to be going through a figma tutorial to get up and running, and i'd like to recreate a design reference file in the software for both a mobile and desktop view. Not an exact replication but an iteration on it that I can use for my portfolio. I bet doing this will really help get the look right and speed up the actual development process once I get to it.

This is going really well so far! I've learned that you can find a bunch of free figma resources online, and I happened to come across a portfolio design that I like. Since Figma is completely web-based you can literally just hit an open in figma button and a new draft will be created in your figma account that contains the file and everything within it. Super convenient. I'm getting the feeling that learning this software properly is going to open up alot of possibilities for making better websites. Right now what i've decided to do is recreate the template file from scratch using my own information, going section by section until it is done. This will help me learn Figma while simultaneously create a workable design to develop my site off of. While working on this design I will also be applying colors and font choices from the other resource that I found that I feel will be a good choice for my site. I am intending on implementing a light/dark mode toggle so i'm going to need to be careful about my color choices in particular here, but luckily I have samples to work from!