The keyframes lesson was much simpler than I expected. Keyframes are defined using the @keyframe rule, and they basically just provide waypoints along the progress of an animation that allows you finer control over what happens at any given point during the animation. They replace the animation property value, with all of the corresponding properties being assigned within the block of the keyframe itself. 0% and 100% represent the start and end of the animation (you can also use the alias' 'from' and 'to' instead of these percentages), and then any percentage value van be used as the waypoint. Within each of these values properties are assigned. It is not complicated stuff at all, however it can definitely be used in complicated ways. Another thing to note is the different between transitions and animations. Transitions are a kind of animation that is almost 'linear' in nature, in that they only have a start and end value and they transition in between then using different configurations. Animations are more involved than that, and can have many different start and stop points with a variety of properties being affected. Overall they are like a super-powered version of transitions.

Throughout the day I read through that whole keyframes lesson along with the additional resources, but I have yet to go through the practice exercises. I don't think I actually need them but it couldn't hurt to get the practice in. I also looked through the first lesson on accessibility (or a11y as it seems to be referred to as). This will be the next big topic that I dive in to, I believe I will be completing about 7-8 lessons on it. First things first I will finish up the animation exercises. Oh I also need to work on the github repo for ecommerce project that I finished recently! I don't have a read me yet and I want to make sure this looks good to potential employers so i'm going to tackle that soon as well. I also didn't  do any of the testing for that project which I feel a bit guilty about.. I should really go back and write them up. I want to keep pushing forward though haha that project took awhile.