Tonights focus is going to be on creating the hero section. Got caught up in quite the issue yesterday with dark mode not cooperating in the navbar component but i'm past that now thankfully. The goal is to have the hero section all styled and layed out nicely without any animations. I will not be worrying about the responsiveness quite yet unless this breezes by (rarely does haha).

Haha I always underestimate the amount of work required in devloping custom sites. Today I managed to get through a portion of the left column in the hero section. Ran into a bunch of issues along the way as expected but I have solved everything that came up. The design is looking pretty darn good and I keep expanding on the theme as I go. Today I focused mainly on getting the typography correct based on the Figma reference. As of now it is looking solid, however I am not yet sure how I am going to approach making it responsive. I am definitely going to learn alot in the process of doing so though beause responsive text seems like a real challenge to implement within a theme. Tomorrow I am going to create a custom status indicator component that contains a nice pulsing animation. I hopefully will also have my social link icon buttons set up to complete the first column, and I would like to get my main image inserted into the 2nd column and layed out properly in desktop view. Once that is all set I will be okay to focus on making that section fully responsive. At that point I would have learned enough I think to move forward and be better equipped to make the remaining parts of the application responsive as well. This is definitely a slow moving project but the quality will be top notch when i'm done with it and that really mattes to me since it is my own portfolio. I want employers to be impressed when they see it rather than just use it as a tool to allow them to view my projects. Of course that main funcionality is the important part but i'm treating this as a significant project in and of itself.