Made it through the type section of the illustrator course yesterday! There was a big disappointment that I ran into. Turns out you can't break text apart into lines, words, or characters in AI without converting the text to outlines. This seems insane to me that illustrator doesn't have this functionality built-in. It has been a core feature of CorelDraw that I use in my work daily to ensure that text stays editable. This will create so many problems when coming back to old files for reorders or to look at what fonts were used previously. The only way around this is to make duplicates of the text before breaking it apart I suppose, that way you can use it as a reference later on if need bed. Seems like a bad workflow to me though compared to what i'm used to. I guess softwares can't be compared one-to-one and come out equal in everyway but I am actually shocked that this seemingly simple action hasn't been included in the industry-preferred software this whole time. I did find a script online that I can learn how to load into illustrator and run in order to make this functionality possible but having to run some random script that I found on a forum as a macro just seems silly for what this software costs.

So the good news is that this color section has been pretty enlightening so far! I learned what swatches are and how they work. I can create a custom swatch pretty easily, and use the eyedropper tool to grab any colors in the document. Custom swatches that you create are only included in the current document so this is Adobes very of the document palette basically. When a new file is create the swatches panel will create a nice tidy array of the default swatches available depending on what color mode and profile you have chosen when creating the file. The different document presets (web, print, etc) define the source space that the file is using. From what I can tell this is either sRGB or SWOP depending on whether or not the intention is to use a screen or use a printer. sRGB will be what I want to receive files in pretty much all of the time since I prefer working in RGB and I hope that all clients will send RGB files. I may however choose to convert this on export to SWOP if the printer ends up being calibrated to that profile. This will help manage color a little better since it gives accurate instructions to the printer on how to recretae the colors that I am seeing on screen to the best of it's ability. That being said I am far more likely to just send everything is sRGB since I use a digital press and it thinks in RGB anyways. Better color gamut that way.