Learned some pretty sweet stuff last night. CC libraries are pretty awesome. They let you store graphics, fonts, colors, etc inside of a folder basically called a library that can be accessed via any Adobe app directly inside each software. Super convenient way to pass around different values that are used commonly. One great use case that I learned about last night was saving colour palettes in Adobe Color. Adobe color is a tool used for creating color schemes using color harmony or any visual inspiration that you find while exploring options based on text prompts or by checking out the trending options. You can click 'add to library' and then put that color palette up in illustrator really easily rather than creating a bunch of custom swatches. I really like this method of working with color.

I also learned how to work with gradients. Pretty easy, there is a tool specifically for it. All of the standard gradient options are available like the modes (radial and linear), adding stops, changing the colors out and choosing where the mid-points go. All that standard stuff. There is however a pretty cool tool that the course suggested called grabient that provides a bunch of nice gradient values to try out. I can use that in the future when I am looking for inspiration.

I watched a few additional lessons on linking vs embedding and cropping images too. Linking is when the imported image is 'linked' to a file that is stored locally on your system. If an aimge contains a linked file and you export it that way to send to somebody else then they will receive an error on there end saying that they do not have the linked file. You want to retain links when it is important to keep the file size down, however be sure to send the source file in that case as well. If file size is not an issue than just embed the image to avoid issues. Embedding it stores the image data inside of the ai file instead so that it can be passed around without need for a reference.

Cropping in illustrator is not ideal but that's fine considering it's intended to be a vector-based software. You just need to choose a shape to crop the image into and then use it as a clipping mask. Same story as power clipping in coreldraw. 

The opposite of a clipping mask is a compound path. With a clipping mask you have two object: the object to be masked, and the object used to clip out the excess. I think of it like cookie cutters. You have the cutter and the cookie dough. The 'cutter' has to be on top of the 'dough' to work properly. The dough that is not inside the cookie cutter gets removed and you are left with a piece of dough the same shape and size as the cutter. Pretty straightforward. A compound path is the exact opposite of that. Instead you are keeping the dough on the outside of the cutter and removing the stuff inside the shape. It is called a compound path because the resulting path is a combination of the result of both overlapping shapes.