I've been continuing to study color today and have been enjoying it. The course is slightly outdated however it had made me stop and think which is good for making the concepts stick. I have learned a tad about color psychology (not much though, I should spend more time on that) and color harmony. I understand the different kinds of harmony that you can work with but will need to spend time exploring the less common options to really get a feel for the kind of vibe that they evoke. It is similar to different types of scales in music having different feelings. The majority of the course though has been focused on using illustrator to come up with good color schemes. I've learned about creating color groups, using the different themed libraries that are available, and finding inspiration from color.adobe.com to save as a library and add as a swatch in illustrator. I've also learned how to customize the swatches using color theory principles to make the palettes fit what i'm aiming for better. I can use tints, shades, and tones to riff off of particular hues that I enjoy to help extend a palette out. I can use color harmony to find colors that work well with the existing colors by using the color guide panel in illustrator. It uses a base color to generate a palette dependant on which harmony rules you select, and then lays out some tints and shades of each color to choose from. Once a palette is built up that feels good you can convert them all to global colors so that any changes made to them affect any object that uses it which is pretty handy. Finally, you can use color.adobe.com to extract a palette from an image which is a great starting point if you are working with certain assets and want to match it or even just if you like the vibe that an image has you can steal it from that image using the colors included. All pretty good techniques.

Finished up that color theory course. All of the solid information I pretty much included in the paragraph above. I also drew a few more logos from the angular section of logo modernism. I completely revised the way that I am using grids. I was just creating my own grids using the rectangular grid tool and then locking it but I prefer now just using illustrators built in grid instead because the snapping functionality seems to work better and it extends forever so you dont' need to get the proportions right immediately. Infinite scalability works better. I have found that doing it this way also kind of solves the problem that I was having with using strokes to create gaps between shapes. It is easier to nudge items over within the confines of a grid to create those gaps when possible.