Had a good time yesterday recreating 11 of the 16 logos on the cover of the logo modernism book. It's been really good practice in terms of using the software and just for solving design problems. I think i'm going to try and get the other 5 done to cap off the mini project. I've also finished both the effects and patterns section of the illustrator course which was pretty interesting. I like the pattern function. It is neat the it creates a custom pattern swatch to use as a fill. Much nicer than use copy paste. The next section is 3D design which i'm not too interested in at the moment but at least Ill learn about a few techniques for it, and then I can go through the final section on exporting to finish the course up. Woo! Made progress with this software for sure.

Zipped through the 3D section pretty quickly this afternoon. The last lessons was by far the most useful. I learned how to generate very realistic mockups using illustrators new mockup function. It is really solid. You just need a photograph of the item and a vector graphic that you want to create a mockup of. Place the graphic over the area of the photograph and click make. Illustrator will analyze the planes in the image and create a mesh that the vector gets adjusted to. The graphic is now conformed to the surface which is awesome. To take it a step further you can also apply a blend mode (multiply is great) so that the texture and lighting in the chosen image comes through in the graphic. The result is a very high quality mockup. I can see myself using this all of the time at work for stuff like t-shirts, yetis, personalized items of any kind really.

Just watched a really great video about all of the different ways to export with illustrator. It was broken down into these categories: between programs, for print, and for digital. Between programs can be a simple copy and paste unless there is some sort of consistency in the assets or branding in which case you can use CC libraries. If it is for print you are going to want to export to PDF most likely and to reduce unecessarily large files you can turn off the preserve ai editability option. If you are exporting a whole document than you can use the export for screens option to export all artboards in different sizes or file tpes if needed. Otherwise if you just want a graphic contained within a file you can select it and open to the asset export panel or export selection options. This lets you just export that particular selection (or several selections). Very useful workflow information that I will use quite often. Wish there was more info in regards to exporting for print to be honest but apparently that is included in the advanced course. Next up i'll be learning about all of the different file types that illustrator can export to and then I will learn about the best shortcuts in the program. That will be everything!

I also have been watching some photoshop tutorials and just trying to get an idea of how people approach design using photoshop and it has amped me up a bit to learn the software in it's entirety. There is so much that can be done with raster graphics and i'm really looking forward to getting better at that world of design. One interesting video that I watched was about how to create a vintage letterpess style poster which made use of a buch of different texture layers, halftone masks, etc to create a specific style that I eally enjoy. I'd like to be able to make some vintage looking posters so maybe that will be one of the things that I spend time on once I have the software down. Not that useful for a portfolio but maybe I can find a way to make it work. Like make a collection of poster/album art and list it as an personal graphic experimentation thing. Jesse Nyberg does that.

Yoooo I just finished up the logo modernism front cover project! The second last logo was a serious challenge. I had such a hard time solving the design problem itself. Hard to explain in words, but I was trying to get a square to fit inside another square on a 45 degree angle and for some reason could not see that it had to be shorter than it is wide to make it work. An inner triangle was really messing with my perspective of it but I managed to create the correct shape and then scale it down and bam the idea clicked. Really solid feeling. The next one was cool too because I just used the blend tool from a circle to a hexagon with rounded corners with a specified number of steps and finished it in probably less than a minute.