In a coffee shop right now learning about jwt. I think I already have the foundation of this topic covered, don't need to spend mouch more time on it as far as I can tell. Some dude just showed up and started playing some music pretty loud so i'm going to finish up my coffee and hit the road.

Today has been really weird by the way. Mid December yet it is raining, and it's dark and gloomy at 4pm. I had a very low amount of energy haha and I think that may be a contributing factor. 

I am considering using my programming time to instead improve my skillset in graphic design. Now that I have free access to the creative cloud and professional experience in a design adjacent field I believe improving my design abilities and technical skills could have a direct impact on my career as it stands. I am afraid of falling for behind in coding or even losing my skills by shifting focus for a duration of time so I need to think this through. I have found some great, low-cost courses to work through that can get me comfortable with the big 3 creative cloud softwares: illustrator, photoshop, and in-design. I have taken this guys Figma course in the past and enjoyed his teaching style for sure. There is also the thought that by improving my design skills it may help me get into a UI/UX position as well.. not likely, but the skills will igve me a better shot at transitioning. Even print design would be an interesting thing to get involved with though and would be a real possibility for me. Especially since I have a bunch of local connections in the industry. Maybe I can do this and on the side start building that website for the cat shelter. That would keep the skills fresh while moving forward. Hm, could be a cool plan. The next 'big' project for the odin project is a blog api and i'm not exactly enthused about it or the rest of the projects that are listed. I may just be tricking myself but there very well could be more value in doing my own projects now. I hate leaving something incomplete that I have worked so damn hard on though. I will at the very least complete the lessons even if I don't do those same projects. I will however be completing the same quantity of cull-stack courses as there are projects so this isn't just a laziness thing. I dont think so anyways.