Did a little bit of reading today about typography styles. I learned that serifs can be broken down into oldstyle and modern to further differentiate them. Oldstyle is meant to look like it was written by a scribe with a wedge shaped pen. It has a diagonal stress with more of a flowing, hand-written look to it (not to be confused with a script style though). The transition from thick to thin in the line is prety moderate but definitely there as the wedge-shaped pen would cause this naturally. The serifs have a slant to them. A modern serif font on the other hand has a vertical stress with alot of contrast in the line thicknesses. The serifs are horizontal and very thin relative to the thicker vertical lines. This modern style was derived from the fact that machines started becoming more common and the hard-written look started to fade as these types were mechanically developed. There are also slab serif fonts which are basically modern fonts that are thicker for advertising purposes. The problem with doing this though is that the thin horizontal lines basically disappeared at a distance, so instead slad serifs were developed by thickening the letter shapes entirely rather than keep the wide contrast in thicknesses as featured in modern font faces. Clarendon is a prime example of a slab serif. So you can tell the difference between modern and slab serif by the fact that the serifs are thick, and theres not much variation of thickness in the rest of the letter form. The stress is still vertical like in modern fonts.

I am now at a coffee shop working through the rest of the drawing section of the illustrator course. I just finished learning about brushes. Definitely a cool subject. I can now take very mechanical, perfect looking paths and transform them in these tetured, hand-drawn looking lines by applying brushes to them. It is a really great way to add some character to vector graphics and I bet I will be able to make good use of it. Perhaps it would be a more useful feature for an illustrator as opposed to a designer but i'm sure there are alot of use cases still where I will be able to sneak some brushes into my work.

I ended up learning about the simplify path function and the width tool this afternoon. I really like the width tool! It is similar to line profiles but more customizable. It would be great for making a font more custom and giving it a sort of hand drawn, calligraphic kind of look. The simplify tool takes a path with alot of anchor points and reduces it down to he minimum amount on anchor points needed without affecting the look of it. This definitely is nice for when you want to make changes to a path as you won't need to select big groups of anchor points to move portions of the graphic.