Today was a challenge to say the least haha. It was crazy busy at work today after missing yesterday. I went on lunch and realized I had a flat tire so I spent an hour and a half getting that sorted out. I have to go get it actually changed tomorrow, I just needed to call someone to help get my wheel off because it was completely stuck. Bummer. I ended up staying until 6:30 to make up for the lost time. I got a revised job offer from that real estate photography company and declined it. The compensation package is very bad, I can tell they have no extra money to spare or are not willing to put it towards their staff. Not a situation i'm willing to be in. Then since I had a spare on my car I decided not to drive it to go the gym, but my mom offered for me to use her car so I went for a last minute late workout. Only managed to d 20 minutes of cardio and like 2 exercises before hitting the road. It was past 9 and my little bro was pressuring me to head out cause he was tired. Fair enough, I was too. I deserved today though after taking yesterday off to be honest... a relaxed yesterday = a super busy today and hey that's reasonable enough. Just glad i'm in bed now resting. Too bad its nearly midnight lol. Anyways all that to be said i'm not doing any programming I don't think, I need some time to relax before going to bed.

I think something I was to get out of my head though is how confused I am about my web development path right now. I feel like my motivation has really dwindled down after fully realizing just how terrible the job market is right now. I am starting to actually believe that getting a programming job with my background is just so unlikely and it's really starting to wear on me. I have no intentions to quit, but i'm starting to really question whether or not this is the right place to be spending so much of my energy everyday. This isn't something that I do as a passion or even for fun necessarily, I am in it to make a better life for myself. I want to get a good pay cheque and be in godo working conditions, using my brain to get jobs done rather than my body. Programming is a great way to do that. I've noticed that I don't love learning new technologies all the time and having that feeling of never quite understanding the full extent of what the teh im using is capable of before feeling forced to move on to the next thing. I wonder if that is something that is going to really be a problem for me down the line.

I am really proud of having developed the skillset that I have and I definitely feel it was a valuable way to spend my time. I am going to keep on continuing to build projects and go through the odin project curriculum just for the sake of doing it. It doesn't hurt me to do something that improves my value and skillset, even if that never ends up coming back to me financially. I need to find ways to leverage all of the skills that Ive developed to accomplish the same goal that programming would solve. How do I use all of my resouces to build up a better career that provides a lifestyle I want is the question. Programming has gotten me closer for sure! The next step may just be continuning to save and improve my web dev portfolio. At the same time I can sink a bit of my energy into improving my design related chops since I have free access to the creative cloud. That could be a pretty nice way to add more value. I also am still heavily considering doing that year of college to really get some credibility on my resume as well. Lot's to think about, lot's on my mind lately.

All I can really do is keep pushing everyday and try to decide how to best align my actions with my goals.