It was a pretty laid back day at work. I did some maintenance on the UV printer so that I could print a cover for a notebook. I used photoshop to create a decent mockup instead of just a basic proof. It got approved fairly quickly and I did not run into any issues with overspray as I expected. Yesterday it was a big problem with some notebooks that Zach was printing so I figred i'd give the print heads a good manual cleaning. I think that cleaning solved the problem. I also managed to complete the metal offcuts project today. All of our laser aluminum, sublimation metals, and stainless steel offcuts are now sorted into bins for easy identification. The next project is to create a small acrylic shelving units to store the actual sheets of material that do not fit in the offcut bins. I will make two of those actually, one of which will be for the lamacoids. Once they are created I can sort out the lamacoids and bring them into the shop to make life a ittle easier for everybody. Right now they are in a storage room down the hallway from our workshop so it will be a welcome change to not have to go run back there when we need the material. Tracy has been commenting on how good the shop is looking quite a bit lately which is nice - I wish Joe also recognized the work that i'm putting in but I don't think he really cares to be honest. He doesn't really see the efficiency and reduction in stress that it creates because he is more concerned with other aspects of the business. Fair enough, but I do find myself wanting him to acknowledge the value that i'm creating. Oh well, that is life.

I've also began working on the pricing list since we are so slow. Unfortunately I do have to deal with how unorganized the categories are as they were setup by somebody who does not work in the department, but I have control over the accuracy and relevancy of the information that is stored in the pricing sheet. My goal right now is to remove all unnecessary or duplicate items within the sheet, ensure the the pricing is accurate, and try to get a thorough understanding of all of the supplies and materials that we keep in this sheet. I know most of it, but there is a lot of miscellaneous hardware and what not to familiarize myself with. Perhaps as i'm going through the list I can try to come up with a plan for how it would ideally be organized so that I can pitch the idea to upper management and see if they would like that to be a future project.