Made it through the blending modes section last night. Didn't really learn anything concrete to be honest, just to flip through the different modes to see what effect it has on the layer beneath it. I'd like to learn more about how the modes actually work even though I understand I probably will just be flipping through most of the time regardless. I know the modes are organized into different section based on how you can expect them to behave (darken, lighten, etc) depending on the nature of the algorithm being used. For example, multiply darkens value because it takes the value of each pixel (for R, B, and G channels) and multiplies them together. Values are stored as percentages from 0 to 1 of course, so multiplying the values together will always result in a lower value. If I could get a similar understanding of the other blending modes I would be able to have a better idea of what mode will accomplish an end goal that I may have in mind.

Just made it all the way through the visual styles section of the course. I enjoyed it. The styles that I learned about were duotone, anaglyph, and vintage. Duotone is basically just a gradient map that uses two interesting colors. It can be used for an entire image or just over portions of the image if it is applied to a selection instead. Pretty neat look that i'm sure I can make heavy use of. I see it in a lot of designs that are in the style I am interested in. Anaglyph is a 3D effect that makes use of 2 layers. One layer isolates the red channel and the other layer isolates the green and blue channels to create cyan. When the positioning of the layers are offset from eachother you get a weird 3D look to it as if you were watching a 3D movie with no glasses. This is more of a specialized kind of thing and honestly I don't understand how it works all that well. Im not sure if the layers are blending together somehow or not when the channels are isolated but I think that is the case because you need to go into photoshops advanced blending section to turn off the channels. I tried googling but didn't really find more information about how this effect is being created. Might try to do some further research on the advanced blending options for insight.

I also learned about creating a vintage look however this is something i've done alot of before. Just cruhsing the blacks and whites to reduce contrast and adding things like texture layers that are blended and vignettes. The video creator did however do 2 things that I haven't explored much. He boosted the shadows of the blue channel using a curves adjustment layer and reduced the highlighs down. This somehow created a teal and orange style like, although quite subtle. He also added a high pass filter and used it to sharpen up just the edges of the image, then put that through a blend mode to create a textured kind of style as well. Coll stuff. 

I just did a bunch of research and completely solved the mystery of what is happening with the anaglyph effect. I'm really glad I spent so much time looking into it too because I have a really solid understanding now of how channels and the normal blending mode works in photoshop. So each pixel is displayed based on it's rgb value. Each channel ranges from 0-255. When you make an anaglyph you turn off some of these channels on certain layers. this means that on the red layer, the blue and green values will not have any data. Everything will look different shades of red for this reason. Then the other layer that contains blue and green channel information will have no red channel information. Finally, the normal blending mode that is set by default works by replacing every rgb value with the values on the top layer. If the channel has no color though than there is no information to 'replace' any other value with, therefore the color data below it is shown. This is why the two layers together look totally normal when color separated. None of the channels data is being changed, it is just being shown through each layer like a sieve. It's not transparency though, it's just no color data existing on that channel. When you shift the top layer over by a pixel you will see color change shappening because now there are different values in the pixels on the top layer. If the top layer is cyan and the bottom layer is red, than shifting just the top layer over will retain the same red value but change the other channels values which will result in a different color being displayed. Simple as that.