Today has been pretty interesting so far. I found a channel on Youtube called Doron Studio that is run by a streetwear designer with a very grungy, sci-fi style that makes heavy use of a variety of textures and image processing. He offers some really excellent advice for designers as well as tutorials for processes that he uses to create art is his style. One piece of advice that I really resonated with is that a style is really just a visual aesthetic that is developed over time based on what a person enjoys and the technical limitations that they have to work with. This has been entirely true in music... my style develops subsonsciously based on what I enjoy listening to and I am only capable of creating this music when I have the technical ability and tools available to do so. That means that I am on the right track a t the moment since I am focused on learning my tools and im consuming a bunch of different artistic media. These things will over time add up. 

Anyways, I am going to move forward with the photoshop tutorial now. I believe I ended yesterday with learning about how to create a layer mask. I'm going to learn about how to actually apply them now to making selections. A cool technique that i'm looking forward to learning is blending using layer masks.

Oh I forgot to mention that I spent some time yesterday reworking the When In Rome poster that I created in an effort to get better at layout! I decided to use a custom grid based on diagonal lines and then iterate on some ideas from there. I like the result much better as the angle really added visual interest and fit the contents of the graphics fit the layout better. Pretty nice little experiment.

Yay I know how to blend images together using layer masks now. It is very easy. Just create an empty mask on the layer that you want to remove parts from, make sure the foreground colour is black, and then use the brush tool to paint in the areas that are to be removed. You can set the hardness of the brush all the way down to get a more natural looking blend. Next up will be learning to select hair.