Okay time to get going! Today I am going to get a search input running in the main nav bar that renders the product page with the product that has been searched (by product name). Once that is up and running I would like to start creating the shopping cart logic. I am looking forward to that part as it allows me to think about how I want my applications state to be managed. I learned about the context api recently and i'm hoping I come acress a good use case in this application so that I can get some practice in. Ideally I would also like to configure MaterialUI and Styled Components in this project tonight but I think that would be biting off more than I can chew, I only have about 3 and a half hours until I have to turn in.

Been a pretty good night so far. I've managed to convert the application from importing product data to using it via the context api instead. I don't expect the data to change at all and I want to pass it into many different components so I feel like this use case makese sense. I could of course just import the data into each file instead of using the context but where is the fun in that? I learned alot by going through the motions of creating a custom context provider component, using it at the top level of the application to pass the context to all components, and then accessing it using the useContext hook.

I also decided to go ahead and configure materialUI with styled components again because I realized that the search bar functionality would revolve quite a bit around how it is styled since I would like a drop down list of all pedals to appear as the input changes and matches are filtered down. I am now following a tutorial online that shows how to build one of these search bars from scratch with a really nice UI. I could definitely hack my way through it, i've built similar inputs before (notably in the CV Builder app) but I want don't want to have to spend too much time on the design of this one myself so i'm going to use my resources.