Today The Odin Project made some big changes to the Javascript path! It does potentially set me back a bit because I need to review all of the changes and catch up on what I haven't covered previously, but it really enhances the course as a whole. The React section in particular is much better now. I made a great decision when deciding to depart from the course before to learn Vite, Vitest, MUI, Styled-Components, and the context API because all of this has been added in to the curriculum! Hard work payed off there haha, CRA is acknowledged as having been deprecated too so i'm really glad I didn't stick with only using that. I do have some questions about the changes. Everything in the Javascript path from the React section forward has been marked as (OLD). I'm not sure if this means that I should not be completing it and instead moving on, or if I should do it anyways? The projects seem to have been either moved or replaced into other modules. For example, the wheres waldo app has now been moved inot the NodeJS course. I have a feeling everything that is marked as old will end up being removed. I will go ask some questions in the Discord (or read an update there that i'm sure they have put up by now considering the code is all live and its a big change). If they don't recommen that I do the old lessons that damn, all I have left to do is complete the React sections that have been added in and the Javascript section is finished! That's a major accomplishment, and it means I get to move forward with the backend sooner than I was hoping. Pretty stoked.

One caveat is that it does not look like I will have the opportunity in the updated curriculum to use Firebase. I am sure there is a good reason for that, but perhaps it would be nice to have that skillset still. I'll ask that question as well.

So rather than work on my project today I am going to start going through the new React lessons. I'd like to get back to the same point that i'm currently at (the ecommerce project) so that I can move forward once done it. 

Made it through a ton of lessons today just by skimming through. I've covered the majority of the stuff talked about in the first 40% of the lessons (which is all I had time to look at this afternoon). I got to learn a little bit more about keys in react and I read a bit about the React reconcilitation algorithm which was good as I can use it as a mental framework when working with state to ensure im not causing unecessary rerenders. I also can see that it is suggested I use a different PaaS (platform as a service) to host my static page websites. GitHub Pages at this point would require some hacky workarounds to deploy properly in comparison to a hosting service such as Netlify or Vercel. I'm going to choose one of those 2 options to host my ecommerce app once i'm done it.