Okay so yesterday was pretty good! I've gotten a handle on using styled-components and now i'm just at the stage where I need to actually come up with a design. Something that i've learned about myself while working in graphics and learning web dev is that I prefer solving problems in an analytical way and design tends to be a lot more creative (obviously). While I really enjoy being able to look at a visually pleasing outcome from something i've designed, the actual process of designing it is less enjoyable to me than working on a complicated logic based problem. 

Regardless, my goal this weekend is to completely finish the design (and pdf generation) of the cv-builder project so that I can move on to lifecycle methods and hooks. Once I have those concepts down I will be able to come back to the cv builder and rewrite all of the class components to be functional. Then I can get started on the memory cards project. This particular project seems like a bit of a drag from an outside perspective not going to lie. I am starting to really get the itch to work on something that solves real problems or that I can see an actual practical application for. That being said i'm sure the creators of the curriculum chose this project for a reason and I look forward to whatever it has to teach me. I may be able to learn a new technology througout it as well, or at the very least strengthen my existing skills before moving onto more complicated stuff. I need to get better at css so I can make it a point to spend some time both in this project and the next one to improve my efficiency in that regard.

I am feeling pretty motivated though to have a cv-builder project that is starting to take shape! I would ideally like to be able to actually use it to generate my future resume so i'm going to make sure the layout that I put together is professional and can be scraped by the hr's automated software so that hitting quick-apply is easy.

Anyways it's friday afternoon and i'm stuck heading out to band practice so I can't really make much progress here. That's okay though, I will have alot of time in the next 2 days to meet my goal. Sometimes taking a little breather to enjoy other parts of life is nice too. Hopefully I get home early enough as well to sit down and put a little bit of thoug into the design and how to approach it so that tomorrow i'm ready to get going on it.

I want to note a quick issue that I ran into with the styled-components approach by the way! I have found that it is a little tricky to use containers that aren't parts of the actual styled-components. You know, to move everything around and layout the page properly. I have had to resort to using inline-styles which doesn't feel right to me. I must be missing something. Idk if css-in-js just requires inline styling sometimes or not but i'm not a big fan so far of that particular method. I would like to find a way to mitigate the problems i'm running into as I know styled-components is a popular choice for styling and there must be a good workflow that i'm missing out on.
