Today I am going to start working on the CV project. My first actual React app, exciting! The goal is to write an application that takes an assortment of user input in categories such as basic info (name, contact, etc.), experience, education, skills, etc. and uses it to create a resume that can be downloaded as a pdf. You should be able to make edits to every field. This app will require having a solid understanding on using react's class components, props, and state. In the future I will return to update all class components into functional components, but for now I want to ensure that I understand how they work thoroughly. TOP recommends that I use create-react-app to setup my project, however I am on the fence about whether or not I am ready to explore Vite now. I feel pretty comfortable with the boilerplate the cra provides but i'm not positive that I have a very deep understanding about the inner-workings of the template that it sets up and the problems that come along with it. Maybe it's best that I still with it for this one project and than for the Memory Cards project that is coming up in 2 lessons I can go ahead and use Vite. That way I can say i've made a full app with both options and hopefully understand the differences a lttle better.

I can't wait until I start working on my own personal projects. I've got some awesome ideas worked out that i'm really excited to start implementing. I want to ensure I learn everything important before applying the knowledge to my own apps though so I will still go through TOP in it's entirety before moving forward with that.

Okay I admit I got very caught up this evening in planning out how the sign shop ERP project will be structured. I know this isn't exactly an urgent matter but I really wanted to put together a mental model of how it will work and I think I am on to something now. Probably should be coding up the CV builder but this is really interesting stuff. I am basically planning out a modular system that helps completely streamline operations for Duplicators specifically. I'm sure there are alot of other shops out there that could benefit from it but I want to make sure this works very well for my own workplace. I have the system split up into 56 modules: inventory management, estimating & quoting, purchasing & procuremnt, customer relationship management, order & production management, and reporting & analytics. I plan on tackling 1 module at a time in that order an integrating them as I go. As it stands Duplicators does not have an effective system for the first 3 listed modules so I think doing this will be incredibly beneficial. I also need to make sure that these module can integrate well with docketmanager otherwise it is unlikely they will ever see any use. Once I create a really effective database of materials and use it to build super accurate estimates and quotes I think they will be sold. Those quotes can then either be integated into DM or they can only be used to ensure pricing is accurate before being translated into DM. Either way works but neither is ideal.