Last night was meh, I must have been tired! I fell asleep watching a video on hooks. I managed to learn about useState and useEffect though; I implemented a little example app to practice how both work. It just changes a divs background color on click. the color is saved as state, a function is defined that sets the state of color based on its current value, and the function is used as an event handler on a div with color set as the divs background color. When the div is clicked the function is called which changes the state triggering a re-render, calling useEffect again since the color is within its dependencies array. The old event listener is removed from the previous component and a new event listener is added to the most recent instance of the component.

Damn alot of progress in a short period of time tonight! I completely replaced all class components in the cv-builder project with functional components. Ran into zero issues somehow, it's pretty straightforward to do. I then implemented the download as pdf functionality using the html2canvas and jspdf libraries, and then I redployed the new updated site to gh pages. Awesome.

The hooks lesson is all done now so i've moved on to the next project, Memory Cards. This should be a fun one. My main goal is to get more comfortable with hooks, in particular useEffect. I also want to use Vite as a build tool to see how it compares to create-react-app since I now have that technology locked in. I think I am going to try and refine my technique using styled-components again too. I liked the modular approach to them and feel like they will fit in good with this project. While I would like to learn how to integrate other styling techniques into React I think styled-components is still pretty fresh and would be good to lock in the techniques a little bit more before pushing forward. Since Vite comes with Typescript out of the box i'm also going to go ahead and add that back in to make sure that I can keep that knife sharpened.

So tech stack is Vite, React, Typescript, and Styled-Components for this one. Neat.