Okay finally I am good to continue! Got home to late yesterday to be able to do anything, it was like 12:30 and my brain was fried from the loud music. Today I am going to finish the AI logic for choosing computer attack coordinates. Hopefully I will do that quickly enough to also be able to put some time into the documentation/github repo and get it hosted. 

I did it!!! Officially done battleship. The AI is smart. It so cool to play against an AI that I built that might beat me haha. I now can go ahead and start working on my github and moving forward with the odin project. This is a very exciting, fulfilling moment.

I've done a couple little admin tasks this evening. I've published the site to github pages (I definitely understand how to do that better now in Webpack projects), i've written a portion of the readMe for battleship, and i've put together a new bio for github that I like much better. I also noticed that my toDo list project was broken haha. When the localStorage contained no data it was returning null and breaking the whole thing on load. I don't know how I missed that when I initially published it... maybe the data was cached or something? Either way I fixed it really quickly and republished so we're good to go there. I no longer like the UI very much haha it's weird that I didn't do anything for screens that aren't mobile. That being said though I don't care to go back and fix it up as it is a little learning project rather than something for the portfolio. Responsive design will come later, for now i'm good to move on.

I've also had some exciting ideas that have been brewing for future portfolio-worthy projects. I have three main concepts that I would like to develop. 

First would be a workout tracking app that has features like a plate-calculator, a custom exercise database, lots of metrics/strategies for tracking progressive overload, three different training style modes(strength, hypertrophy, endurance), and possibly even an entire nutrition section for calories/macro tracking. Obviously many of these apps exist but it could be awesome to build one out and have it entirely customized how I like it.

The next app would be a band management app for local groups. Most of the apps out there are geared towards bands looking to generate revenue so they are focused on gigs, invoicing, sceduling, etc. Instead this app can contains features like a single sign in that each member can use to view and edit setlists, with each song containing important data like it bpm, key, lyrics, and what now. There can be a section for songs currently being learned as well. Recordings of the songs can be saved under each one so you can easily listen to your own versions to practice. A visual metronome can be turned on to give a really quick indication of tempo for the drummer to use at practice. A goal setting section would be good with progress tracking metrics. Like minutes of music, number of originals written, etc. An app like that would really help me and the guys keep organized. 

Finally an app/website tailored at sign shop owners/employees would be really awesome to work on as well. I could build an ecommerce platform first of all that contains a database of a bunch of materials/supplies for building signs. I can then build an API for it and develop a whole ERP system that connects to the API. Obviously it wouldn't have a real-world use as the materials database is fake, but I think it would be great to show employers regardless. Within the ERP you should be able to create quote/orders, track/update inventory and supplies, and store customer information. Kind of like a stripped back version of docket manager really but with a more integrated purchasing/inventory tracking system. Come to think of it too.. maybe int the future the fake database can be connected to real websites so items from actual suppliers can be stored in it. In this case Duplicators could use it as its own internal purchasing system.


I think all 3 of those ideas are really great projects and i'm excited about each of them. Better move forward with TOP so I can gather enough knowledge to get thes things started! I also want to do Full Stack Open once TOP is over as well so i've got my work cut out for me for sure.