Made some good progress yesterday. My application now recognizes when a user is logged in or not and responds appropriately. Here is a summary of the next steps:


Step 1 will be to then add the isMember property to each user and set the default to no whenever a user object is created.

Step 2 is to add a 'become member' button in the the nav when the user is logged in that brings the user to the become member page. The page has a single input that asks the user to solve the following riddle to become a member: 'what is a computers favourite snack?'. The answer will be microchips. If that word is submitted then the users status changes to member, otherwise a message tells the user they are incorrect.

Step 3 is to have the messageboard component conditionally rendered the messages author name and time if the user is a member.


Once i'm done this project I think I might take on another side project. It is super similar to the ones i've already been doing and can actually have a use. I'd like to build a website for the local cat shelter 'Small Things Cats' to use to help their cats get adopted. It will be very similar to the airbnb website in functionality as i'm just adding cats information and displaying them all on the index page, then there will be a single page for more information. The funny twist that I will add is writing all of the copy as if it is a car dealership website. Titles for the adds will be like '2016 Meowzda' and stuff like that. I saw it online and laughed my butt off at it so i'd love to recreate something very similar. I also plan on offering to maintain the listings and go in there once a week to snap some photos of the new cats. The whole goal of the site will be to get users to 'book a test drive' lol. Or in other words, an appointment to go meet the cat they are interested in. I'm excited about this! They don't have a website right now so i'm really hoping that this is something they would be happy to receive as a gift. I also noticed their socials are pretty slow so maybe I can enlist Dekotas help to manage it using the content that I generate on the website. She is a social media marketing manager and loves cats so it is a possibility that she would be interested in some volunteer work.