I've really been avoiding making progress on this project for some reason. I wonder if it is because my sleep has been so bad lately. Idk, but either way i'm logging in my journal pretty frustrated with myself tonight. It has been very difficult to get work done the past few days as my brain is just finding any excuse to do something else. Weird too because this project will be pretty interesting once I start getting some more stuff done. I think it may be because I know it is just practice and not the real deal so it is just something I need to get past before I can actually start working on the serious projects. Hard to maintain motivation when i'm in that mindset.

Tomorrow is going to be a go hard kind of day. I will move my workout to Friday (works better with my schedule this week anyways as I need some recovery pretty badly) and focus hard on getting some momentum going on this project. Tonight i'm going to sleep early to try to replenish my energy as well as I can. I need something fresh after this too to kind of help me get back in a groove. I think what I can do is choose a full-stack project tutorial to follow through to kind of help me gain a little bit more insight into how both the front and back end will connect together before I actually get around to making my 3 'capstone' projects. Doing so would be a nice refresher on the front-end as well, I am kind of missing making something that looks good as it gives me more of a sense of actual completion watching something come together visually.
A blog site would be a cool choice since that is actually the next project that is coming up. Could help me get a head start on it by studying first how somebody else approaches making one. Idk if that would be a good or bad thing but so far in my journey studying other peoples solutions before implementing my own has been immensely helpful for my learning. People say that is is cheating myself but I have been seeing the opposite as far as my skills go. When I use all of the resources available to me I am able to just absorb more information. Perhaps my problem-solving abilities lag behind a bit because of that, I can't exactly prove that isn't the case, but I am still steadily watching my coding abilities increase so it can't be that big of an issue. I'm okay with accepting sub-optimal learning results anyways in exchange for making coding a more enjoyable process overall (aka not banging my head against the wall trying to always develop my own solution without any help). Kind of like at the gym where i'm deliberately cutting myself some slack with my diet and exercise variations regardless of the performance decreases because it improves the enjoyment of the process enough where im happy to sacrifice the gains for it. I'll keep doing what works best for me so long as I don't let myself become too disciplined to the point where my performance is inadequate to reach my goals in any reaosnable amount of time.
