Just finished fixing up the scroll behaviour of the portfolio. I wrote a function that is called with the sections id as a prop when clicked in the navbar. I then select the element with a matching id and call the scrollIntoView method on it with a scroll behaviour of smooth. Pretty slick. The title had to be treated a little bit different as I specifically wanted it to scroll to the top of the screen on click instead. I just put an anonymous function inside of it's on click that called te scrollTo method on the window object with input parameters top: 0, left: 0, and behaviour: smooth. That did the job. I don't think I mentioned in yesterdays journal entry either that I have hooked up framer motion and put some super basic animations on a few home page elements. I'd like to dig into that library somemore to learn how to make some really nice animations since what i've done so far is really straightforward. I learned as well that I can use the library pretty easily with materialUI which is something I was concerned about since framer motion requires that you access their motion component to use it and I wasn't sure how to access that within a custom mui component already. Turns out there is a component prop for that. You can set the component prop to the motion component that you want to use and it will set that as the base that the mui component is built off of. Perfect.

So I pretty much finished the portfolio site! All of the animations are complete - i learned a fair bit about using framer motion in the process which was awesome. I intend on exploring that animation library much further but i'm happy with what I have put together today to call it complete. I have yet to deploy it, and I should probably add a favicon quickly before I do that but yea the site itself is all ready to go. Exciting stuff.

I've also spent a few hours today focused solely on learning node.js and have made some good progress. I read all of the assignment links included in the getting started lesson of the odin project and i'm part way through a crash course youtube series produced by the net ninja. Love this guys teaching style, im getting alot out of it so far. As of now i've covered some of the basics like read, writing, and deleting files. Using module systems to require nodes core modules as well as custom modules. I've looked into several core modules in particular such as http, url, and fs. I am getting a feel for what working in node is going to be like. I don't have access to any front-end stuff like the dom or the global window object but I don't need that in the backend anyways which is nice because now I understand where the line will be drawn. Node does have a Global object of it's own though the gives access to a bunch of cool methods.