Working on the deployment section of th elibrary tutorial at the moment. There is a walkthrough that teaches all about how it works and what steps to take to actually get this particular project setup properly. Hopefully the knowledge will be easily transferable to other projects with slightly different configs.

I DID IT. The deployment process went (mostly) smooth. I had a couple of slight hiccups dealing with little bugs in my app that was causing crashes during deployment but it had nothing to do with configuration, I just had the wrong module names being required. I would have thought this would have caused an issue in a development environment as well but nope, I guess it is only noticeable when you atttempt to use that specific module.

The process of using Railway is fantastic compared to any other services i've tried so far. Actually come to think of it... very similar to Netlify. You basically just cretae a project on Railway and connect it to your github repository. Once connected you receive continuous deployment when commits are pushed to the repo which is awesome. You can then setup a database by using the provision database option. You choose mongoDB and a database is created for you to use in your application. You connect to it by grabbing the connection string and adding an environment variable that uses it to connect to the database within your app. I had a variable in my app already called MONGODB_URI that stored the connection string, so thats what I set the env variable too. You also should set NODE_ENV to production to make the app much more performant. That was literally all there was to it. Click the generate domain option in your deployed app and visit it to check out your production build.

There are limitations to Railway being that it is a free service. With the free trial you get $5 worth of free credits which goes towards any usage on the platform. Supposedly that will run out within a month or so, but I don't know for sure whether that is true. Either way the lowest tier Hobby plan is only $5 a month and will provide more services than I will actually need. Not a bad option whatsoever.