Diving back into the mongoDB course now! Starting half way through unit 5 where I get to learn more about finding documents and making queries.

So far so good. I now know how to accomplish half of the basic CRUD operations in mongoDB: inserting and finding documents. I've learned how to use comparison operators and logical operators (combined or alone)in my queries as well to narrow down the results. Figuring out how to do this also improved my understanding of how complicated MongoDB's data structures can get. You can have deeply nested documents (also called embedded documents), all with complicated fields of their own such as arrays of more nested documents. You can use dot notation to query into an array and regular object notation to go into these nested documents. When the data increases in complexity it can get a little challenging to target specific fields but I think I have a grasp of how it works.

Im now in unit 6 where I am studying updating and deleting documents. So far i've covered replacing a document using the replace method on a collection. It takes a filter parameter which searches for the document you want to repalce based on the filter, and a replacement document that you are replacing that filtered out document with. This method retains the old documents _id field value which is pretty awesome in case it is referenced somewhere else. Won't have to go back and update it.

The updateOne method is like replace but more customizable. It allows you to define which fields you want to update rather than just replacing the whole document. You have to provide a filter to find the document to be updated, and then you can insert an update document that has a bunch of fields changed. You need to use update operators like $set or $push to make these changes. $set takes a field and sets the value to the given value, while push inserts a value into an array. If you want to push multiple values into an array you can use the $each operator to do so.

The findAndModify is like a blend of the updateOne method and the find method. You'll likely want to look at the document that you have updated after updating it which would require the use of the find method. Rather than using the two methods separately and making two calls to the server you can just use findAndModify with the new option set to true to have the updated document immediately returned to you. Definitely a convenient one.

Tomorrow i'm going to start off by learning updateMany and how to delete documents. I'd like to complete the next unit as well which is the last that relates to CRUD and teaches you how to modify queriy results. I'm about halfway through this course right now. I'm feeling pretty good about MongoDB and databases in general. They are really not that intimidating of a concept once you get accustomed to it. Obviously there is a heck of a lot more that goes in to it but just like anything I will learn as I go. As long as I can get up and running and make effective use of a database in my projects than I am happy. The real progress will come with time.