Spent a lot of time this afternoon researching how to automate business processes for work. Not programming, but the knowledge could come in handy down the line in related ways. In order to use many automating platforms you need to have a solid understanding of how to work with API's, so perhaps i'll be able ot put my development skills to use in that industry one day to save businesses a ton of time. Who knows. I found a way to do it for Duplicators by automatting the entire customer service/project management process up until the first contact is made with the customer which is pretty insane. A new email can trigger a task to be created in asana which is assigned to the person with the least amount of work in their queue. Then chatgpt can put together a draft response in and store it in the assigned workers folder in outlook. All the worker has to do is check which tasks they are assigned in asana and open up the related drafts in outlook to correct an inaccuracies in chatgpt's generated response. This can improve response rates and turnaround times for orders dramatically. There is also a docketmanager integration available but it is quite limited. I was hoping to be able to create an empty quote and attach the quote number as reference in the email draft so all of these resources can be linked together and ready to go. Don't think that extended functionality is available yet though. Too bad that Zapier can be so pricey.. it would be a tough sell to convince the bosses to actually invest in it. I may approach the topic when the business reaches a point where the workload is heavy enough to justify hiring on another person. It will make sense to first invest in improving efficiency at that point rather than starting with increasing capacity. Training and turnaround costs can be avoided if successful.

Anyways that is pretty far of course from actual development work. Right now I am continuing with the MDN tutorial where i'm currently in the middle of creating all of my read-only pages. I made alot of progress on this yesterday so I don't think there's all that much work left to do here before I start working on the other CRUD operations that need handling. Finally then i'll be able to look at the deployment process which is what i'm really interested in right now since I failed the last lesson on deployment.

Just finished up all of the read-only pages. I'm getting the hang of it now for sure! I can query databases for information without too much difficulty using models that i've created, even in parallel using promises. I can then use the data returned to render dynamic views using pug which is pretty exciting. Time now to learn about creating, updating, and deleting information from the database.

