Today is going to be all about deployment. Dynamic server-side applications can't be deployed using services like Netlify or GH Pages because these services are designed to handle static single-page applications. There is no server-side code that uses dynamic data, it is all baked into the pre-built files that are sent to the browser. Instead I can either learn how hosting/deployment works from scratch which is a huge topic, or I can start by getting comfortable with a PaaS. A PaaS is a platform as a service which allows you to deploy server-side applications. The PaaS abstracts away many of the infrastructure management tasks so that you can get your site up and running quickly and with minimal complexity. I think this is a good place to start.

The problem with using a PaaS is that they are paid services with limited free tiers, so I will be facing restrictions right away regarding what I am able to use the services for. There are many different PaaS's available that have different pros and cons and it is a little difficult to try and pick which one is right when you have never used one before, so I think I will follow the odin projects advice and just start off by using Fly.io as the PaaS and see what kind of problems I run into as I go. Supposedly I get to host 3 applications for free which is a great free tier options. Railway comes with integrated mongoDB support which is ideal, but I don't think it has the same free tier options so it is not recommended to use right away. Instead, I can connect Fly.io to a MongoDb Atlass instance.

Once I have Fly.io setup I will want to connect the app to MongoDB using a connection string of course, but this connection string will be exposed by default if I push this project to a public github repository. Even though I don't care right now about anybody having access to it because it won't contain anything valuable, I do think there is value in learning how to keep it secure. I will learn how to use the dotenv package to store the connection string as an environment variable instead, which will require some extra steps to make work properly with the PaaS.

So the goal then is to deploy my very basic message board project to Fly.io, connect it to MongoDB, and keep it secure using environment variables. I will not be paying for any sort of custom domain or whatever, i'm keeping it as simple as possible.

Alright so that did not got well haha. I learned a little bit about how to use Fly.io, but I ran into some critical errors trying to actually deploy my little app and cannot find any documentation or resources to help get past it. My knowledge is to limited right now to overcome it form what I can tell as I have exhausted the resources available to me to fix it. The only path forward that I can see is to learn more about deployment as it relates to nodejs/express projects. Fortunately I can follow the MDN tutorial that i've been going through and at the end it will guide me through the process of deploying to Railway. Im going to take that route instead and see how it goes before I slam my face against the wall haha. It will also help me move forward with TOP sooner which is nice. Oh well, failure is frustrating but I will conquer this eventually!