Going to be working on the about section of the portfolio today! Shouldn't be too time consuming as it is mostly just text. Can't wait to finish up this portfolio and officially move on to the back-end! Having this site in my back pocket is going to be an awesome resource as I start building out full stack apps since I will be able to constantly be showing my best work to employers in a professional way that extends beyond just my github account. Once I have a few full-stack projects ready to go the appliying process begins! Obviously i've still got months until reaching that point since this projects will be very involved but it's exciting to reach that point for sure. Gives me a nice goal to work towards as well. I think creating a linkedIn and a nice resume will be something I do while putting these projects together to make sure i'm even more prepared when the time does come. I will probably be pushing the cv builder project out so im not going to worry much about making sure that my resume is created with it.

Ended up finishing the about section tonight entirely. Pretty easy one, didn't run in to many issues. I also started researching how to send emails on form submit in React and it is simple! My next task then will be finding a design reference that I like and building the form up with validation and all that good stuff. It will be a very basic form as I really don't require much from it. Then I will go ahead and hook up a service called emailJS to capture the submitted information and send it to my personal email address. Should be a fun section to write as I get to learn something new. Once that is done I will have a footer to create which will take maybe 10 minutes haha. Then all I will have to do is put some finishing touches on via animation which is where i'll get to learn a new tech Framer Motion! Looking forward to that too. this has been such a great project so far. I feel very confident with the results. Designing it in Figma beforehand was an absolute godsend, definitely going to be doing that again.