Well the interview went pretty good. I am confident that I will end up receiving a job offer, however they did mention there was another candidate. I think that might just be a game though as I could tell that they were impressed with how the interview was going. I've got some good feelings and bad feelings going on and it's alot to process. I think I need to be in my head for awhile to really think through the pros and cons of how this can help or hurt my career, so instead of developing i'm going to spend this evening on that. It's kind of an excuse to get out of doing work right now haha but my brain is going a mile a minute and I don't think that stopping it is a good call really. I need to put my thoughts into words I think so i'm going to use this journal entry to do so.

Starting with the negatives of the job so I can see them. First of all, the pay is not ideal. It starts at $20 an hour, no benefits, and is only 35 hours a week. Right now I am earning $21.50 with a basic benefits plan and working 40 hours a week. That means i'm sacraficing $160 per month of direct earnings ($21.50 for 40 hours is $860, $20 for 35 hours is $700). I'm also losing the benefits which I literally just received so that's a bummer. The health spending account is the only thing that I actually care about though as it's $1000 annually. So all together my compensation drops in value by about $2920 per year. The new employer would be receiving funding that requires they give me 35 hours a week minimum for a year though so there is stability, and they have expressed a serious interest in having a long-term employee so I feel relatively secure. I don't know what will happen after a year, but I have a level of safety that i'm comfortable with for the time being.

There is also a non-compete/non-disclosure that I need to sign which prevents me from using the skills that I develop to participate in the local market. I need to look at these terms closer, but I mean im already under a non-compete and Duplicators so this a a neutral point to me. Building a business like this from scratch would be very difficult anyways so I don't see that happening anytime soon.

On the bright side, I receive a one hour lunch which is why my hours are lower (unpaid lunch break). This should give me enough time during most days to head home and eat there rather than do takeout. That could be a good way to recoup some lost money. I also will be receiving $30/month to boost my phones data plan since i'll be using my hotspot often. I may receive a few extra bucks from that but nothing worth thinking much about. And then finally I will be receiving mileage compensation for the usage of my vehicle. I don't have any details regarding what this amount is but this just will require alot of local travel so it will need to be a significant enough amount to cover wear and tear as well as fuel otherwise that will just end up being an expense for me which is not acceptable. I will have to review the offer if I receive it to see what the value of that is. Since my car is paid off this could be viewed as a benefit in a way because the money would end up in my account. Maybe not entirely rational since the lifespan of my car is shortened, but I don't anticipate it being too drastic. More details are needed.

Now the only real reasons I would accept these losses is because of the opportunity to learn a bunch of ne valuable skills and gain some relevant experience. I would be learning about a bunch of topics that would make me a more well-rounded individual and are related to the skillset that I already have. I'd get professional experience with photography, videography, marketing/personal branding, and above all there is hope that I would be doing website and app development in the future. This is a huge bonus for me and while i'm uncertain what the details are I think it is my best chance right now and moving into this industry. In addition to this, I would also get to do a lot of my work remotely which is fantastic because a big negative to the sign industry is that you are trapped in the workshop. I also will be travelling around doing different things everyday which is excellent. This type of experience will allow me to bring my skills anywhere and not require a massive investment to use them in an entrepreneurial setting. This fact alone could mean that entrepreneurship becomes a much more viable option down the road. On that note, the owner is intersted in selling the business in about 10 years when she retires so that path is also available if I really end up liking it. Unlikely, but possible. When I pair all of that experience and the new skills with what I have currently my resume will look really solid, so I could view this as an investment realistically.

I also get a pretty good vibe from the people in the company, and I especially like that the owner seems to really care about improving her businesses processes and providing solid training. She works off of lists and keeps things very organized and logical which is something I can definitely appreciate. 

Okay after listing everything above I think I might actually be dumb to turn down this offer if I receive it. The 'red flags' are starting to seem like more so my unwillingness to take risk and make in investment in my future. I am bad with change and this opportunity definitely pushes me out of my comfort zone, so it could also help me develop as a person if I face it. If I fail it will really suck because Duplicators is overall a chill place to work but I think I would regret it if I didn't take the chance. Am I just convincing myself now? Hopefully not.