Well I doubt i'm going to get much done today unfortunately because I have band practice in 45 mins and i just finished eating after work. Bummer. While on lunch break however I did have the opportuity to study space complexity and after wrapping my head around time complexity it is pretty easy to grasp. It's basically just a measure of how memory usage in a function scales. The space being measured can be split into input space and auxiliary space. Input space is the amount of space that the input is already taking up when it enters the function, while auxiliary space is the additional, temporary memory that is required for the function to run. Some functions require more space than others so being able to measure how efficiently it is being used can be helpful in certain situations. It is not as helpful as measuring time complexity as memory is pretty cheap compared to processing power these days so it is getting less and less common to run into problems that require more memory than is available. Primary memory can't just be immediately expanded though so when you do get into those situations than having tools available to help control it such as analysis via Big O notation may come in handy.

Speaking of primary memory, I went on a bit of a deep dive on the different types of memory last night. Turns out there are 3 big categories: cache memory, primary or main memory, and secondary memory. Cache is the fastest to access and therefore very efficient, but it is not usually very large and is non-volatile so its typically used to store frequently used data or instructions for the sake of speeding things up. It is not used for everything though because it is the most expensive to manufacture and is not persistent so its only good for the short-term. Primary memory on the other hand is a little bit slower but also much larger and can be either volatile or non-volatile. Subcategories are RAM and ROM. Random Access Memory is used very often to store information that is currently being used by the CPU but does not need to be accessed permanentely or as quickly as cache memory. It is stored as electrical signals in capcitors/transistors so when power is lost all of the electicity discharges and the data is lost. Read Only Memory on the other hand is physically manufactured into the machine in very specific ways so that each time thecomputer is powered on and off electricity flows through it in the same way so that the data persists. There are further subcategories of each but they aren't as important to understand right now. Finally, secondary memory is like a hard-drive or external storage for example that can store a very large amount of data permanentely. It is the slowest option though.

A good analogy for the above:

Cache memory is like the spice rack in a kitchen that stores all of the spices and what not for immediate access while preparing a dish. It is convenient to have right in front of you. Primary memory is more like the fridge, cabinets, and prep counter that you store all of the ingredients that you need for a dish. A little bit slower to access but you won't need each ingredient as often as a popular spice so it makes sense. Secondary memory is like the big freezer in the cellar that stores all of the frozen meats and stuff. Takes longer to go get it out, but it has a larger capcity than anything in the kitchen so serves its own unique purpose.

