I found a nice Battleship UI design online that i'm about to try and imitate the layout of. Adding my own twists of course but using a reference will be helpful to speed things up via reducing design related decisions. 

I've made some awesome styling progress! The place ships screen is practically ready to go from a css perspective. Now i'm free to focus on the drag and drop functionality which is the part i've been looing forward to learning. There is a great video by Traversy Media that teaches the drag and drop functionality so i'm going to study that up and try to implement it all tonight.

I went off on a side quest this afternoon and decided to get some practice in using scss features. I wasn't actually it to create the interface because I wasn't sure which features would be beneficial for certain circumstances. There is also left to learn but i've implemented 3 of sass' main features: variables (i know i know, it's in vanilla css now too), nesting (along with the '&' parent selector), and basic mixins. The variables were already in use so those don't count much. Nesting is a neat feature when used in the right context. I implemented it to add things like hover functionality and group together some classes that belong within a certain container. Traps that im trying now to fall into are creating excessively specific selections via nesting and following the html structure too closely. Specificity problems can occur when being too lenient with the nesting and styles that are tightly coupled to the html is the result of following html structure too closely. I don't want to have to change styles around if I decide to restructure the html so that one is important to me.

I also did a little bit more research on Bootstrap out of curiosity and I learned that it involves writing your styles inside of the html classes just like Tailwind. I enjoyed that part of Tailwind alot when using it in past projects - not having to switch over to different style sheets is nice. Tailwind is a utility-first approach which makes it very flexible, while Bootstrap is instead component based. Bootstrap uses utility classes too though for higher level stuff like spacing and typography, but it differentiates itself from Tailwind by providing components. This improves on the speed at which a site can be developed, but it limits flexibility by enforcing pre-defined styles. I think i'll circle back around to it for a future project where creating the UI with speed takes priority over having flexible styling and practicing sass. It's nice getting a glimpse into all of these different approaches to styling a site because it allows me to consider which option will be more suitable for a particular project. For example, if i'm in a rush and don't need fine control over the design than I can choose bootstrap. If I am making a complicated project that needs a fine-tuned, unique design than i'll probably take the sass route and split stylesheets up into modules. Then finally if I want exra help with making design decisions without losing flexibility in the process, and I also don't require modular css to keep things organized, than I can choose Tailwind.

Oh man I keep allowing myself to get distracted with topics that don't necessarily help me finish this project. I am struggling to decide if it's a good or bad thing because I am constantly improving my weaknesses by doing this but it results in relatively slow progress on the things i'm actually working on. I just looked into whether or not my html was written as semantically as it could be and then went off into whether or not my class names were following proper BEM naming conventions. This improvements are good things from a skills developing perspective but its hard to say whether or not they are where my attention should be spent right now. Maybe I should go log in to TOP discord channel and ask some experienced devs their opinions on whether or not I should be following these little thought trails as often as I am. 