Last night I had a heck of a time trying to figure out how to check is a ship is sunk and then render the status properly. Todays goal is to make that happen. Once I do that I can go ahead and figure out the logic for checking the end game conditions. I also realized that I have yet to make the computers AI smart.. like at all haha, it is currently just copying the position that the user clicks. 

YEAAA. Just hammered out the sunken ship rendering and status message updates. It was a bit of a tricky problem to solve but for some reason that one felt really good.

I did a couple more hours of work tonight since the above message. Overall I got a lot done, I happened to find quite a few bugs, opportunities for improvement in maintainability, efficiency, and reability, and added a bunch of helpful comments. Basically did a bunch of code clean up and reviewed everything again myself. While there is certainly alot that can be changed to help with decoupling i'm pretty confident in the state of the code as it is. There is a bug that I know of but can't seem to figure out how to fix. Whenever I try to drag a ship that has been placed to another location i get a runtime error as soon as i release the mouse. Not sure why it is triggering an error so i'd like to get that worked out. 

Tomorrows gameplan is to work on the end-game logic (I already have a pretty good idea of how to approach it), render the endgame modal, and begin improving the intelligence of the computer AI. Sooo close to moving on to React!

Aside from the work i've been doing on projects and what not i've also picked up the book "how to think like a programmer" by V. Anton Spraul again. It is a really interesting, challenging read and I think I see more value in carrying on with it now in my free time as it will likely help me figure out how to approach solving different types of problems. It's written in C++ which was a big deterent to me at first but now that i've had 6 months of training in javascript i'm confident enough that I can just look into the foreign syntax as I go and it won't be a very big deal.