I ended up finishing unit 6 last night! The updateMany and delete function are very straightforward to use. For the sake of time i'm not going to dive into the specifics as I can always look up the docs in the future. Time to move on now to unit 7 where i'll be learning about modifying query results.

Just learned how to sort and limit data in mongoDB. These methods are called cursor methods because they operate on the document that has been returned by a query. A cursor is something that helps you navigate, select, and manipulate data (just like using a mouse would, which is why we also call that a cursor). You would need a cursor then to sort through documents and limit the outputs. These are super simple to use. In the case of sort just pass in a document with a field tha tyou want to sort by and set the value to either 1 or -1 depending on if you want ascending or descending order. Limit is even easier, just pass in the number of documents you want to limit the results to.

Next I learned how to work with projections. Projections allow you to return only specified data from a query. This is really useful for saving bandwidth and improving readability. By default entire documents are returned once found, but you can choose to include or exclude fields from this document. Do so by including a projection document after the filter document when using the find method. Set the field values to 1 if you are taking an inclusion approach (deciding which items you want to see), or to zero if excluding (deciding what you don't want to see). You can't do both including and excluding in the same query, with the sole exception being the _id field. It will show up by default no matter what so MongoDB creators have written the queries to allow you to exclude it when taking an inclusion approach which is a nice benefit if you don't care to have that field for whatever reason.

Capped off the unit by learning how to count documents in a collection. Super simple, just use the countDocument method and pass in any query object that you want to filter the results down. Moving on now to learning about the aggregation pipeline. Not a clue what that is at the moment but it claims to be powerful. This should be a neat unit.

