Alright so yesterday I created a pretty nice nav and hero section for my personal website. While doing this I realized how useful having Figma as a skillset could potentially be as far as developing websites goes. When I get hired at some point down the line I probably won't have to worry too much about designing beautiful interfaces as that will be up toa designer, but I can definitely benefit from knowing how to do it if the need arises. Especially with personal projects and freelance work. I know that design is important to me personally even though I don't want to make it a front-and-center part of my career. So yea since I want to make the best portfolio that I can manage right now before moving on to back-end I am going to start by taking a comprehensive course in Figma that I found online. This will introduce me to the ins and outs of how the software works and hopefully give me some best practices. Once I have that taken care of I will continue applying what i've learned to my portfolio site. This is of course a bit of a detour but I feel good about it. This is technically my final project in the advanced html and css section so sinking some time into this is still related as it will help me write my styles more efficiently and with vision. Could be indispensable because there is a lot of mental friction involved with designing a site while building it for me. I've noticed that I am hesistant to try coding something up when I am not sure how it will look, so this can give me some assurance before hand that I am putting effort into the right things. Also, after I spend time stying a feature I tend to stick with the original idea because alot of effort was involved in getting it right. Perhaps this will help me come up with betters ideas to build off rather than settling on what I thought of first.

I'm about half hour into a 3 hour long course right now and it's been a nice start. As of now we've discussed what Figma is all about (rapid prototyping), as well as what it isn't for (actual development). The difference between UI and UX has been covered in detail, and i've downloaded the desktop version of Figma along with a bunch of exercise files that i'll be using to follow along with the course. We've discussed what a user brief is and i've auto generated one of my own to use for this course. It is really just a persona of who the user is that allows you to be specific and intentional about what design choices you are making so that the site can be targetted towards somebody that isn't either yourself or everybody. It helps narrow things down and create something that the expected users will benefit most from. Finally the concepts of task flows and user flows was covered. Task flows is a specific process that is followed to accomplish a particular task. An example would be an ecommerce purchase task flow, where the user follows certain steps/hits certain points on the website to accomplish the task. Homepage/marketing page, product features, checkout, confirmation. That is the flow that is aligned with the ecommerce purchase task. User flows on the other hand are more involved and usually contain multiple potential ways of accomplishing the same thing. So the user can flow in different ways towards the same outcome. Some users may user a search bar to navigate to the product page, others may opt for the category nav, etc. A file can be created in Figma to map out all the potential ways a user can flow through the website and this can be referenced to help understand what needs to be accomplished to accomodate all of those steps.

