Alright I finally started making progress on something new yesterday. I struggled for a couple hours getting the configuration all setup for the social media app that I mentioned in the last journal entry and ended up scrapping it because the tutorial happeneed to be pretty out of date. Luckily I found another great project option to work through that will help me get a good understanding of how to connect the back and front end of my projects. I think learning to do this will really help me get going again because I realized what has been keeping me procrastinating is the fact that I don't like designing from scratch at all, especially when all I have to work with is pug and view templates. React and a front-end styling library makes it so much more enjoyable to me so to be able to put that technology back in to the mix should help me maintain some motivation.

The new project that I chose to walk through is an airbnb clone. It is a full-stack MERN tutorial that uses Tailwind and Typescript. The end goal will be to learn to connet front and back end technology as mentioned previously. It will not be a project to showcase on my portfolio since it it a tutorial, however I will be able to take alot of the styling from it (it has authentication pages) to create the members-only project afterwards. I believe I can get back on track by doing it this way! We'll see how it goes. As of now I have created the login and register pages and still have about 6 hours of tutorial left to go through so I expect to be on this for about the next week or so since coding it will take more time than just watching a video. I'll probably run into some problems along the way. I'm not on a deadline or anything though so it's all good as long as i'm learning and making progress.

Weak points that I am anticipating is that this seems to use client-side routing so I may not get much practice routing with express. Makes me wonder how I am going to render front-end components in response to a get/post request. That will be a topic that I need to look into for sure just to make sure I understand that process as right now all I know is how to render a page using a view engine.