Okay so I finished up that light mode design for desktop late last night! Pretty stoked on how it came out - I used the template but made some significant enough changes to it to make the final result my own. One thing that I didn't play around with much though is fonts which is something I should definitely spend a bit of time on. Maybe i'll actually start off otday with a little bit of exploration there and see what I can find. I would like to code up the navbar before heading to bed though so that will be the main focus. Not hard, i've done it before a few times of course so I don't expect that take too much time.

Alright I had a pretty good night of coding! I have the navbar all laid out, i've created a simple router (after installing react router and reading up on how to use the newer browser router), and i've got a theme created that conditionally renders the mode icons. I still need to work out how to toggle the mode on click but i've got some progress happening regardless. Nothing is properly styled up yet, i'm going to get the basic functionality down first and make sure it is solid before working too much on the css. I just have layout properties applied. I was very careful to use the correct mui components for the job this time too so i feel like i've learned alot in one afternoon. 

Tomorrow I want to dive deeper into toggling the mode on click using theming in mui. Once that is done I can create a custom light mode palette that contains the colors in my figma design. Once that is ready to go I should be all set to style the navbar. I want it to be a completely freestanding, full functional component before moving onto anything else as it really contains all of the application logic. I'm unsure how to make the navlinks work right now.. in fact, i dont even know if this site needs routing come to think of it. My vision is that when I click on the link I will get a quick scrolling animation that takes the user to the target location on the same page. I'll work on that tomorrow. Oh also maybe making this responsive right away would be good too because the functionality does completely change. I'll have a hamburger menu that opens up a drawer.