Okay what to do today!?

Now that I am able to dynamically generate and delete sections I can go ahead and create a method to generate a sample resume and then clear it out again. The tricky part about this is that I will need access to every input field that currently exists in the DOM so that I can set the value to an empty string. With the code being split up into modules im not sure exactly how I can grab everything that exists on the DOM at the moment. I'll have to research that before moving forward. I think clearing the fields out is where i'll start off, and then once I have that part down I will go ahead and generate the sample data for preview. Next up after that will be styling, and the once that is done all I will have left is creating a PDF (looked into how to do that, doensn't look all that difficult to figure out).

Yikes I can't stay awake. I think I have an idea about how I will clear out each input fielf. I will need to have a input reference object that stores a reference to each input currently exisiting on the DOM. I will use lifecycle methods to update this object.

Well I managed to stay awake haha. Grabbing each input element in the DOM turned out to be as easy as vanilla js, I was just overthinking it. A queryselectorall did the trick. I also created sampleData and initialState objects that allow for resetting the data to the initial state and generating a sample resume on click. Both were pretty easy to take care of. Next up is styling. I'm going to study styled components tonight to see if that's the method I want to use. Actual styling work itself will come tomorrow. The goal is to not make is too flashy, just get a nice presentable resume that fits an 8.5x11 aspect ratio with the sample data but expands past that in height if necessary to accomodate all of the users information. Once I have a usable style for both modes I will add in the pdf generation button and move on to the next part of the curriculum. Almost another project down! Nice. I love React.