Here's some 'instructions' that I wrote up yesterday for the remainder of the app:

"What I need to do now is develop the end game screen to display the users accomplished score and best score, as well as give them an option to play a new game. Of course i'm also going to have to figure out a way to track best score. Once I have those things working the main logic of the app will basically be done. From there I can style up the application."

I looked into creating Leaderboard functionality and as far as I can tell so far I will need a database in order to actually have data persist for multiple users. Local storage wouldn't do the job in this case. I think i'm going to skip that for this project and perhaps when I get to the backend course I can decide if I want to add that functionality into this project. I bet when I get to that point I will have other projects that will be more impressive portfolio pieces that I will want to practice on but that is fine!

I got the best score functionality working well now. Pretty much the whole logic of the game is set to go at this point. I'm been wrestling with configuring MaterialUI to work with the styled-components engine the past half hour or so. How to do a reset after messing up the installs once. I think I know what the issue is now though, I just didn't specify in my bundler which styling engine was being used so it was trying to resolve to the default engine Emotion. I'm going to make a new branch and try to get it sorted out because MaterialUI seems to have some awesome UI components that I want to make use of in this project. An animated loading screen in particular is something I would like to have included. I am choosing to integrate it with styled-components so that I can get more practice there cause why not. Next time around I will probably give Tailwind a go. I bet Sass would be an easy config and i've used it quite a bit lately so developing other skills will prob increase my value more.

Wow this is cool. After squashing a logic bug that I didn't notice I managed to get materialUI setup properly. It is amazing so far. The stying out of the box isn't perfect but it is ane xcellent starting point to build styled-components off of. The loading screen for example was so simple to implement. Literally just import and drop in a component and boom it is working right away. I also am using a cssbaseline that does a reset for me which is convenient.