Last night I did some 'skill stacking'. I basically just used every skill that I have learned in illustrator up until this point to draw a swan graphic from a sketch. It was pretty interesting and I feel I am in a better position now to be able to manually vectorize graphics quite well. I also learned how to use a tool called generative recolor. It is a really nice way of taking a graphic that has some tonal variation in it and generating a bunch of color schemes for it as inspiration. You use text prompts that feed into an ai and the output is 4 variations based on the prompt. Neat stuff.

Tonight i'm going to be focusing on trying to finish up the pen and curvature tool section of the course. There is a lesson and project centered around the concept of moodboards, and another project that involves the creature i've made previously as well as a lesson on tshirt making. Getting started now.

Wow I just got sidetracked and went on an awesome journey learning about color management. I found a reddit forum that some real experts chimed in on and they explained all about how color profiles actually work and why they are important. The big take away was the RGB and CMYK values don't actually represent a specific color, they are more so a set of instructions that tell your press what to do. Each press works different, even the same press prints different depending on the conditions it is in. For example, what is the press that i'm using has a slightly lighter cyan ink in it than somebody elses? The same CMYK value will print a little lighter in the blues on my press unless the the print profile is set to compensate for it. 

There are 2 profiles being used during the process: the input (source) and the output (destination). The source profile describes how the colors are being adjusted to output certain colors on a monitor. This provides an idea of what the designer is looking at and defines the intent. Monitor calibration may not eb perfect, but this does give an idea of what exactly a person is expecting from a color managemnet point of view. If a printer wants to see colors that are the same as the client (or at least as similar as they can get barring any calibration variances) than they can make sure that the color space they are working in matches the input profile of the file provided by the client. The output profile on the other hand gives a stndard way to measure what colors are actually going to be output. A printer can calibrate their press to a certain output standard (GRAYCoL for example), and ensure that the files destination profile is set to that standard. This will ensure there are no surprises that pop up when printing that are a result of differences in the equipment. Super cool.

So it starts with a calibrated monitor, working with an ICC profile that the designer prefers (wider gamut the better), in an RGB color mode to preserve the wide gamut. This file embeds the profile within in, and the client sends it to the printer. The printer receives it, ensures they are working in the same color space as the embedded profile so that they can view it accurately (assuming fully calibrated monitors), and once the prepress work is done the file will be sent to a rip software that see's the input profile and color mode. It uses this information to convert the file using the output profile that the printer is calibrated for. Black point compensation and rendering intent are some other factors that cna be considered when deciding how to convert the colors to the final output instructions. Rendering intent is cool, it just says 'hey do you want to make sure we render this so that the colors are matched based on a photospectrometer, or how about just make it so that the colors look the closest based on how a human eye perceives it"? The RIP software also allows you to choose media profiles to compensate for whichever vinyl/material is being printed on and versa works has a color settings section that lets you choose some preset combinations that give certain ranges of effects.

Anyways that was quite the rabbit hole to jump down tonight but I learned alot and will be happy to make use of that knowledge when possible at work.